Service oriented architecture(SOA) is a budding technology.
--- useful for developing software systems.
--- standard approach for demanding different services from distributed models.
--- it is an architecture in which independent systems and applications communicate with each other by revealing and using services.
--- these services are defined using open standards.

As the users make request for the services, these services are provided by the components,msgs are delivered by the protocols and
the responses are sent by the systems.

There are two major roles within SOA: 
the service provider and the service consumer.

• The service provider is the maintainer of the service and the organization that makes available one or more services for others to use. To
advertise services, the provider can publish them in a registry, together with a service contract that specifies the nature of the service, how 
to use it, the requirements for the service, and the fees charged.
• The service consumer can locate the service metadata in the registry and develop the required client components to bind and use
the service.
• Services might aggregate information and data retrieved from other services or create workflows of services to satisfy the request of
a given service consumer.

• This practice is known as service orchestration, which more generally describes the automated arrangement, coordination,and management 
of complex computer systems, middleware, and services.
• Another important interaction pattern is service choreography, which is the coordinated interaction of services without a single point of control.

------------SOA Platform Features----------------

1. Standardized Service Contract - In a service, contract should be written using standard format so that all the users could 
understand it properly.It should include detail inf of the service,communication protocol and purpose and format of msg.

2.Loose Coupling -means services have minimum dependencies on each other.it is useful when there is change of service provider.As the 
components of the service are loosely coupled ,less changes are required when the upgradation of system is needed.

3.Abstraction-  A service is completely defined by service contracts and description documents.
They hide their logic, which is encapsulated within their implementation.

4.Reusability - It allows maximum reuse of the service components ,thus reducing development time and the associated costs.
Reusability allows for a more agile design and cost effective system implementation and deployment.

5.Lack of state- By providing a stateless interaction pattern(at least in principle) ,services increase the chance of being reused and aggregated, especially
in a scenario in which a single service is used by multiple consumers that belong to different administrative and business domains.

6.Discoverability- Services are defined by description documents that constitute supplemental metadata through which they can
be effectively discovered.

7.• Composability- Using services as building blocks, complex operations can be implemented. Service orchestration and choreography 
provide a solid support for composing services and achieving business goals. This makes it easy to reconfigure as per the latest 
requirements and processes.


Advantages of PAAS-----

1 Cost Effective
2 pre built sophisticated tools
3 future proofing
4 opportunity for scalability
5 Minimal Development
6 minimum time
